README.md, before:

# Next.js Admin Template with TypeScript & Shadcn UI

**Studio Admin** - Includes multiple dashboards, authentication layouts, customizable theme presets, and more.

<img src="https://github.com/arhamkhnz/next-shadcn-admin-dashboard/blob/main/media/dashboard.png?version=5" alt="Dashboard Screenshot">

Most admin templates I found, free or paid, felt cluttered, outdated, or too rigid. I built this as a cleaner alternative with features often missing in others, such as theme toggling and layout controls, while keeping the design modern, minimal, and flexible.

I’ve taken design inspiration from various sources. If you’d like credit for something specific, feel free to open an issue or reach out.

> **View demo:** [studio admin](https://next-shadcn-admin-dashboard.vercel.app)

> [!TIP]
> I’m also working on Nuxt.js, Svelte, and React (Vite + TanStack Router) versions of this dashboard. They’ll be live soon.

## Features

- Built with Next.js 16, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS v4, and Shadcn UI  
- Responsive and mobile-friendly  
- Customizable theme presets (light/dark modes with color schemes like Tangerine, Brutalist, and more)  
- Flexible layouts (collapsible sidebar, variable content widths)  
- Authentication flows and screens  
- Prebuilt dashboards (Default, CRM, Finance) with more coming soon  
- Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) with config-driven UI and multi-tenant support *(planned)*  

> [!NOTE]
> The default dashboard uses the **shadcn neutral** theme.  
> It also includes additional color presets inspired by [Tweakcn](https://tweakcn.com):  
>
> - Tangerine  
> - Neo Brutalism  
> - Soft Pop  
>
> You can create more presets by following the same structure as the existing ones.

> Looking for the **Next.js 15** version?  
> Check out the [`archive/next15`](https://github.com/arhamkhnz/next-shadcn-admin-dashboard/tree/archive/next15) branch.  
> This branch contains the setup prior to upgrading to Next 16 and the React Compiler.

> Looking for the **Next.js 14 + Tailwind CSS v3** version?  
> Check out the [`archive/next14-tailwindv3`](https://github.com/arhamkhnz/next-shadcn-admin-dashboard/tree/archive/next14-tailwindv3) branch.  
> It has a different color theme and is not actively maintained, but I try to keep it updated with major changes.  

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 16 (App Router), TypeScript, Tailwind CSS v4  
- **UI Components**: Shadcn UI  
- **Validation**: Zod  
- **Forms & State Management**: React Hook Form, Zustand  
- **Tables & Data Handling**: TanStack Table  
- **Tooling & DX**: Biome, Husky  

## Screens

### Available
- Default Dashboard  
- CRM Dashboard  
- Finance Dashboard  
- Authentication (4 screens)

### Coming Soon
- Analytics Dashboard  
- eCommerce Dashboard  
- Academy Dashboard  
- Logistics Dashboard  
- Email Page  
- Chat Page  
- Calendar Page  
- Kanban Board  
- Invoice Page  
- Users Management  
- Roles Management  

## Colocation File System Architecture

This project follows a **colocation-based architecture** each feature keeps its own pages, components, and logic inside its route folder.  
Shared UI, hooks, and configuration live at the top level, making the codebase modular, scalable, and easier to maintain as the app grows.

For a full breakdown of the structure with examples, see the [Next Colocation Template](https://github.com/arhamkhnz/next-colocation-template).

## Getting Started

You can run this project locally, or deploy it instantly with Vercel.

### Deploy with Vercel

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Farhamkhnz%2Fnext-shadcn-admin-dashboard)

_Deploy your own copy with one click._

### Run locally

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/arhamkhnz/next-shadcn-admin-dashboard.git
   ```
   
2. **Navigate into the project**
   ```bash
    cd next-shadcn-admin-dashboard
   ```
   
3. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
    npm install
   ```

4. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

Your app will be running at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

### Formatting and Linting

Format, lint, and organize imports
```bash
npx @biomejs/biome check --write
```
> For more information on available rules, fixes, and CLI options, refer to the [Biome documentation](https://biomejs.dev/).

---

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> This project is updated frequently. If you’re working from a fork or an older clone, pull the latest changes before syncing. Some updates may include breaking changes.

---

Contributions are welcome. Feel free to open issues, feature requests, or start a discussion.


**Happy Vibe Coding!**

Commit message:

feat: integrate @ai-sdk/devtools for enhanced debugging and add new financial insights tools

README.md, after:

# Next.js Admin Template with TypeScript & Shadcn UI

**Studio Admin** - Includes multiple dashboards, authentication layouts, customizable theme presets, and more.

<img src="https://github.com/arhamkhnz/next-shadcn-admin-dashboard/blob/main/media/dashboard.png?version=5" alt="Dashboard Screenshot">

Most admin templates I found, free or paid, felt cluttered, outdated, or too rigid. I built this as a cleaner alternative with features often missing in others, such as theme toggling and layout controls, while keeping the design modern, minimal, and flexible.

I’ve taken design inspiration from various sources. If you’d like credit for something specific, feel free to open an issue or reach out.

> **View demo:** [studio admin](https://next-shadcn-admin-dashboard.vercel.app)

> [!TIP]
> I’m also working on Nuxt.js, Svelte, and React (Vite + TanStack Router) versions of this dashboard. They’ll be live soon.

## Features

- Built with Next.js 16, TypeScript, Tailwind CSS v4, and Shadcn UI  
- Responsive and mobile-friendly  
- Customizable theme presets (light/dark modes with color schemes like Tangerine, Brutalist, and more)  
- Flexible layouts (collapsible sidebar, variable content widths)  
- Authentication flows and screens  
- Prebuilt dashboards (Default, CRM, Finance) with more coming soon  
- Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) with config-driven UI and multi-tenant support *(planned)*  

> [!NOTE]
> The default dashboard uses the **shadcn neutral** theme.  
> It also includes additional color presets inspired by [Tweakcn](https://tweakcn.com):  
>
> - Tangerine  
> - Neo Brutalism  
> - Soft Pop  
>
> You can create more presets by following the same structure as the existing ones.

> Looking for the **Next.js 15** version?  
> Check out the [`archive/next15`](https://github.com/arhamkhnz/next-shadcn-admin-dashboard/tree/archive/next15) branch.  
> This branch contains the setup prior to upgrading to Next 16 and the React Compiler.

> Looking for the **Next.js 14 + Tailwind CSS v3** version?  
> Check out the [`archive/next14-tailwindv3`](https://github.com/arhamkhnz/next-shadcn-admin-dashboard/tree/archive/next14-tailwindv3) branch.  
> It has a different color theme and is not actively maintained, but I try to keep it updated with major changes.  

## Tech Stack

- **Framework**: Next.js 16 (App Router), TypeScript, Tailwind CSS v4  
- **UI Components**: Shadcn UI  
- **Validation**: Zod  
- **Forms & State Management**: React Hook Form, Zustand  
- **Tables & Data Handling**: TanStack Table  
- **Tooling & DX**: Biome, Husky  

## Screens

### Available
- Default Dashboard  
- CRM Dashboard  
- Finance Dashboard  
- Authentication (4 screens)

### Coming Soon
- Analytics Dashboard  
- eCommerce Dashboard  
- Academy Dashboard  
- Logistics Dashboard  
- Email Page  
- Chat Page  
- Calendar Page  
- Kanban Board  
- Invoice Page  
- Users Management  
- Roles Management  

## Colocation File System Architecture

This project follows a **colocation-based architecture** each feature keeps its own pages, components, and logic inside its route folder.  
Shared UI, hooks, and configuration live at the top level, making the codebase modular, scalable, and easier to maintain as the app grows.

For a full breakdown of the structure with examples, see the [Next Colocation Template](https://github.com/arhamkhnz/next-colocation-template).

## Getting Started

You can run this project locally, or deploy it instantly with Vercel.

### Deploy with Vercel

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Farhamkhnz%2Fnext-shadcn-admin-dashboard)

_Deploy your own copy with one click._

### Run locally

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/arhamkhnz/next-shadcn-admin-dashboard.git
   ```
   
2. **Navigate into the project**
   ```bash
    cd next-shadcn-admin-dashboard
   ```
   
3. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
    npm install
   ```

4. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

Your app will be running at [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

### AI SDK DevTools (Debugging)

This project includes AI SDK DevTools for debugging AI interactions in the insights feature. DevTools provides full visibility over LLM requests, responses, tool calls, and multi-step interactions.

**⚠️ Warning:** DevTools is experimental and intended for local development only. Do not use in production environments.

**To debug AI interactions:**

1. **Start the DevTools viewer** (in a separate terminal):
   ```bash
   npm run devtools
   ```
   or
   ```bash
   pnpm devtools
   ```

2. **Open the DevTools UI** at [http://localhost:4983](http://localhost:4983)

3. **Use the insights chat** in your app to trigger AI interactions

**What DevTools captures:**
- Input parameters and prompts sent to the LLM
- Output content and tool invocations
- Token usage and timing information
- Raw provider request/response data
- Multi-step agent interactions (runs and steps)

DevTools automatically stores data locally in `.devtools/generations.json` and adds `.devtools` to your `.gitignore`.

### Formatting and Linting

Format, lint, and organize imports
```bash
npx @biomejs/biome check --write
```
> For more information on available rules, fixes, and CLI options, refer to the [Biome documentation](https://biomejs.dev/).

---

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> This project is updated frequently. If you’re working from a fork or an older clone, pull the latest changes before syncing. Some updates may include breaking changes.

---

Contributions are welcome. Feel free to open issues, feature requests, or start a discussion.


**Happy Vibe Coding!**
